ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   1 May 2019

# Attendees

* Daniel Heckenberg (Animal Logic, TAC Chair)
* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Andrew Grimberg (Linux Foundation Release Engineering)
* Jeff Bradley (Dreamworks)
* Larry Gritz (Sony Pictures Imageworks)
* John Mertic (Linux Foundation)
* Aloys Baillet (Animal Logic)
* Michael Dolan (OCIO TSC / Sony Pictures Imageworks)
* Dan Bailey (ILM)

# Agenda & Notes

## ASWF CI Goals for Year 1

* 6 projects
* CI with VFX Reference Platform dependencies
    * Commercial components
        * Build
        * Test
* Stretch goals:  
    * Downloadable and installable artefacts (with signing?)
    * Windows, Mac support
    * Possibly GPU support

## Timeframes? (Daniel)

* CI Platform decision:   May
    * What’s the cost of "picking the wrong solution"
    * We have pretty much converged on a SaaS solution
    * Different SaaS systems are more similar than they are different
    * Dan: would want to see one of our projects actually using one of the systems. "Incubation phase" for a CI system.
    * Daniel: As part of our goal for a decision by end of May, we will have one project using a SaaS system
    * Aloys: should this timeline be in our Jira. Daniel: good point, we haven’t really used the ASWF Jira ([https://jira.aswf.io](https://jira.aswf.io)). Currently in used by OpenVDB project.
    * Andrew: credentials from [identity.linuxfoundation.org](https://identity.linuxfoundation.org/) https://identity.linuxfoundation.org/
    * Dan: can link Jira tickets to GitHub
    * OpenVDB is using Jira as a bit of a "mailing list" to discuss issues, but have to manually add participants to discussion. Andrew: requires a custom notification scheme. But out groups.io mailing list doesn’t support this.

* Project CII badges:  (Security and static analysis) June
    * Would like to graduate some projects to graduation stage before SIGGRAPH (one year anniversary)
    * OCIO in progress on static analysis, could be the first one
    * Requirements for project website

* Dependency management: July

## CI Platform Comparisons

* https://hackernoon.com/continuous-integration-circleci-vs-travis-ci-vs-jenkins-41a1c2bd95f5

* (Andrew) Update
    * CircleCI pricing for local instance / paid plan pricing is quite high
    * LF RelEng is moving towards Azure Pipelines, with optionally GitLab CI for specialized requirements
    * Experience in LF releng team is still mostly Jenkins, so any new system is going to be a new thing
    * GitLab CI may have some better API compatibility with existing infrastructure

* Azure Pipelines is likely choice.

## SonarCloud

* (Andrew) Update
    * No update right now
    * Can have some interesting issues working against branches

## Project CI requirements

* All
    * CII badge static analysis

* OpenVDB
    * New release coming up shortly
    * CMake update branch when in today
    * Migrated from Travis to CircleCI, plus AppVeyor for Windows
    * CircleCI seems quite a bit faster than Azure, but fewer builders (OpenVDB has many builds). Amount of memory is key criteria (OpenVDB builds are memory hungry).
    * Has been working on an Azure build, ran into some issues, not enough info yet to have a good idea on how well it would work for OpenVDB.
    * Haven’t started on CII yet, will do once upcoming major release is out.

* OpenColorIO
    * Hooked up SonarCloud to OpenColorIO (in isolated branch / repo)
    * Created a dedicated branch to be able to iterate quickly.
    * Not getting any valid results, maybe because not using master branch? Looks like it only analyzes "new changes".
    * Fairly straightforward to set up with Travis.
    * Look at ci_test branch in OpenColorIO GitHub (stripped down Travis setup for SonarCloud)
    * CI build is pretty simple, so could be good candidate to test out different CI system. Also they need a GPU instance.
    * Andrew: LF may be able to get more access for Open Source projects from Azure (in progress), including perhaps GPU
    * Mike: using a single CI system is helpful, although you might get better parallelism by using multiple CI systems...

* OpenEXR

* OpenCue

    * Brian couldn’t join meeting today, but no further progress to report

## VFX Reference Platform Dependencies and Package Management

* [VFX Platform 2020 draft](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/message/578)
    * Sent by Nick Cannon
    * Main focus is Python 3.7.x, deliberately not much else

* [OpenEXR / VFX Platform CI challenge](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/topic/ci_dependency_management/30415253)
    * (JF) [OpenEXR on Azure Pipelines with SonarCloud](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/message/560) 
    * We will need to come up with a set of SonarCloud warnings that need to be fixed vs ones that can be safely ignored / squelched
    * Andrew: you can set policy frameworks across an organization, so we can set those up ASWF-wide
    * Which platform to run the Sonar Cloud analysis against? Andrew: believes there should be a way. LF doesn’t run the for-pay SonarQube instances, so we don’t have support. Andrew to follow up with Sonar
    * Used conda to pull dependencies

* (JF) [Nexus3 Conan and Conda Plugins](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/message/574)
    * JF to make a request LF RelEng Helpdesk to make it into tracking system.
    * LF releng watches disk space on various servers, currently 1- 2 TB on Nexus3 servers, will grow the storage if a VM starts throwing alerts. Have policies for purging unused artifacts.
    * Will require authentication for pushing, not for pulling unless we host proprietary artifacts (should not be in our case). Aloys: the Jenkins script to push to Nexus is quite involved. Would need to store tokens in Azure pipelines. Andrew: use Maven settings files to store credentials, and use the credential system of Jenkins. 
    * Should we consider Artifactory Cloud? They support Conan directly. Rez is adding support for Artifactory. They have some free hosting for open source projects.
    * Aloys: we will need ASWF official accounts for all these services. Andrew: no clear solution for managing credentials across all these SaaS systems. Will need some kind of "sandbox" once projects get hooked up to the “official” CI system, artefactory

# Next Steps

* Follow up meeting: 15 May 2019

