---
title: "2018-09-12"
parent: Meetings
---
# AWSF TAC Meeting - September 12, 2018

## Voting Member Attendees

- Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
- Henry Vera, Double Negative
- Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
- Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
- Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
- Cary Gooding, Cisco Systems Inc. ( delegate for Michael O’Gorman )
- Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.

## Voting Member Regrets

- Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
- Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
- Brian Cipriano, Google
- Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation
- Steve May, The Walt Disney Studios

# Agenda

- Chairperson election results
- Techincal Project updates
  - OpenVDB
- Feedback on [project lifecycle](../governance/lifecycle.md) and [project proposal draft](../governance/proposal_template.md)
- Report from working group formed to investigate build/CI for projects needing non-open source dependencies

# Action Items (AIs)

- Andrew to provide assessment of ASWF resources needed as part of project acceptance.
- Andrew/Thanh to begin work on OpenVDB being brought into the GitHub org for ASWF and start build process integration.

# Notes

John announced that Daniel Heckenberg was elected TAC Chairperson.

Andrew shared an update on the OpenVDB project, and indicated there weren't any critical items for the project. Andrew indicated that a CLA would still be used, but the plan is to translation to an LF standard CLA. Andrew indicated that there weren't plans to change the license at this point, but the LCC TSC may choose to do this as part of the LCC being formed. Daniel asked about resource needs for the AWSF TAC to track in regards to this project, which Andrew indicated that he would assess.

There was a question around other projects being accepted. John indicated that there is no blocker for other projects to be reviewed while OpenVDB is in the process of reviewing. Gordon and other TAC members indicated that it would great to see these projects proposed as quickly as possible. David Morin indicated that OpencolorIO would be a project likely to be added alongside Sony joining ASWF.

OpenVDB said it won't appoint a TAC representative until it holds it's initial TSC meetings.

There was additional discussion on having a standard/recommended licensing and contribution process for all projects. John indicated in general that it would be something for Daniel to recommend to the Governing Board on creating a standard licensing and contribution scheme, but many established projects would have difficulty in adopting.

Daniel gave an update on the working group investigating build/CI for projects needing non-open source dependencies. Thanh indicated it would be best to start the process by bringing in OpenVDB as the first project to determine the specific needs and job evalution. There was further discussion on build assets and build matrix.
