# AWSF TAC Meeting - August 22, 2018

## Attendees

- Matt Kuhlenschmidt
- Henry Vera
- Hank Driskill ( Mark McGuire )
- Daniel Heckenberg
- Kimball Thurston
- Steve May - Pixar
- Gordon Bradley
- Bill Ballew
- Michael Oâ€™Gorman
- Todd Prives ( delegate of Brian Cipriano ) - Google

## Regrets

- Jim Jeffers

# Notes

Mr. Dolan introduced himself to the group and gave an overview of the technical community and structure of the ASWF, along with the role of the TAC. Each of the initial TAC voting members introduced themselves.

Mr. Dolan presented a plan for TAC Chairperson elections, there were no questions or concerns from the TAC members.

Mr. Ha presented an overview of the technical infrastructure.

The following questions came up:

- Mr. Vera raised a question in regards to the DCO signoff process, if there is anything else needed to be done outside of the DCO signoff on the commits. Mr. Dolan indicated there wasn't, and further indicated that the DCO isn't a CLA which requires a formal agreement and process.
- There were questions around the support of CLAs with ASWF projects. Mr. Dolan indicated that the legal committee should review the needs, and also indicated that the LF does have a system for managing this if needed.
- There was a question on bringing third party dependencies into the project build processes, whether they are projects inside the ASWF or out. Mr. Ha said that inside ASWF project can leverage nexus and for third party projects the code will be pulled into nexus as well.

Mr. Dolan walked through the project lifecycle and proposal process for review.

The following questions came up:

- There was a discussion of how to make the community aware of this process. Mr. Dolan indicated that typically the lifecycle and proposal template would be posted online, and that applying projects would email the TAC to do proposals.
- There was a question of using a separate email list for proposals. Mr. Warnicke advised on not creating a separate list. Others suggested a JIRA issue to track the process.

Mr. Dolan opened up the proposal for comments via Google Docs, indicating that many projects are ready to move through the process. All TAC members said that we should start using this process with the initial projects and use that to gather feedback on the process.

Mr. Dolan indicated that Mr. Mertic would follow up over email to coordinate meeting cadence, with weekly meetings to start.
