---
title: "2018-11-07"
parent: Meetings
---
# AWSF TAC Meeting - November 7, 2018

## Voting Member Attendees

- Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
- Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
- Wayne Arnold, Autodesk (proxy for Gordon)
- Henry Vera, Double Negative
- Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
- Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.
- Brian Cipriano, Google
- Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks
- Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios
- JP Panisset, VES Techincal community

## Voting Member Regrets

- Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
- Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
- Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
- Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation
- Ken Museth, OpenVDB Representative

# Agenda

- New Member Introduction
  - Ken Museth - OpenVDB Representative

- Technical Project updates
  - OpenVDB

- CI updates
  - GPU

- Update on candidate projects
  - OpenEXR
  - OpenColorIO
  - others?

- ASWF CI Dependencies from VFX Reference Platform

- License and CLA Guidelines

# Action Items (AIs)

# Notes

Bill reported that OpenVDB has been progressing with the first meeting of the TSC imminent.  Work on CII Best Practices Badge compliance is still under way.  Thanh indicated that the ASWF CI has support for SonarQube analysis.

Daniel summarised the activities of the CI dependencies working group.  There was agreement that simple and explicit methods for artefacts and depedencies were preferable at this stage versus use of package managers like conan.io.

Larry elaborated on the CMakeTools project that he introduced on the TAC mailing list.  There was support and encouragement for the project.  Kimball described another possible project to provide decoding and processing of camera raw images.  Existing projects in the area such as dcraw and libraw were discussed as was the importance of maintaining and recognising the contributions of these projects.  Daniel highlighted the opportunity to involve camera manufacturers directly in this project via the ASWF.  

Work from John and the Linux Foundation in providing clear background and guidance on ASWF LIcense and CLA questions was raised in the form of an open PR on the TAC github.  The document includes guidance, examples and an FAQ as practical means to support the community.

# Chat
```
16:01:30	 From Daniel Heckenberg (Animal Logic) : Agenda:
16:01:32	 From Daniel Heckenberg (Animal Logic) : https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/blob/master/meetings/2018-11-07.md
16:26:14	 From Larry Gritz (Sony) : Can somebody send out a link to learn about sonar? It's not a very googlable search term. :-)
16:26:30	 From JF Panisset (VES Technology Commitee) : https://sonar.aswf.io/about
16:26:54	 From JF Panisset (VES Technology Commitee) : https://www.sonarqube.org/
16:26:58	 From Kimball : https://www.sonarqube.org/
16:27:03	 From Kimball : JF is faster :)
16:28:16	 From JF Panisset (VES Technology Commitee) : So the current ASWF infrastructure does have  a SonarQube server up and running, but I'm not (yet) clear about how it integrates with the rest of the components.
16:31:29	 From comand : Joining late — apologies.
16:59:41	 From JF Panisset (VES Technology Commitee) : No issues for me
```
