---
title: "2018-09-26"
parent: Meetings
---
# AWSF TAC Meeting - September 26, 2018

## Voting Member Attendees

- Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
- Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
- Brian Cipriano, Google
- Cary Gooding ( delegate for Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc. )
- Henry Vera, Double Negative
- Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.

## Voting Member Regrets

- Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
- Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
- Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
- Steve May, The Walt Disney Studios
- Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation
- Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.

# Agenda

- Techincal Project updates
  - OpenVDB
- Update on candidate projects
  - OpenEXR
  - OpenColorIO
- Updates from Governing Board meeting
  - Unanimous vote for OpenVDB adoption
  - Recommendation for TAC to accept VES Reference Platform Working Group representative as "Industry Rep" on TAC
  - Offer from Google to provide discounted cloud hosting for CI
- Other topics
  - Nominations for TAC rep to serve on VFX Reference Platform Working Group
  - CI update (Thanh)
     - Nvidia K80 as POC GPU spec
  - New projects to adopt / formulate
- Change meeting timing and cadence

# Action Items (AIs)

# Notes

OpenVDB was accepted unanimously by the Governing Board. The technical charter is close to being ready for approval, alongside a new CLA which is standard for other LF projects.

Thanh indicated the CI provider has K80 GPUs from NVidia for testing use, and asked the TAC if that was sufficient for testing. Daniel indicated he believed that should work, but would need the OpenVDB project to confirm.

No new news from OpenEXR and OpenColorIO project proposals, both are waiting on thier respective companies internal processes.

Daniel shared that David Morin has been asked by the Governing Board to fill the role of Executive Director of the ASWF. David shared a few words on the background and the role he is filling, specifically around strategy, project recruitment, and fundraising.

Brian from Google shared that Google would offer free cloud infrastructure if the AWSF would choose to use it.

There was no one coming forward to serve as the TAC rep to serve on VFX Reference Platform Working Group.

There was discussion on projects to adopt into ASWF, encouring net new projects that AWSF could bootstrap in the community. There was discussion of ImageIO, including it's participation in Google Summer of Code. John indicated that the ASWF might consider running it's own project if it wishes to more directly manage the process, and agreed to share examples via email after the meeting.

OpenTimelineIO was suggested by David Morin, which others agreed is a good candidate project. David Morin agreed to follow up with the current project owners to check thier interest.

Daniel suggested moving the meeting to a fortnightly basis, which all agreed to. All agreed to look at time adjustments at future meetings.

There was some discussion of other academic opportunities to investigate, which Daniel said should continue discussion on on the mailing list.

# Chat

16:00:28	 From Daniel Heckenberg (Animal Logic) : Today's agenda:  https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/blob/master/meetings/2018-09-26.md
16:07:09	 From Nathan Loofbourrow : I’m here from Autodesk but not to fill Gordon’s shoes :)
16:09:00	 From John Mertic to Nathan Loofbourrow (Privately) : Thanks Nathan
16:09:13	 From Thanh Ha : hey everyone, sorry i'm late. got stuck in traffic on my way back to the hotel.
16:43:54	 From Thanh Ha : On the topic of internship / mentoring programs might I suggest investigating the UCOSP program http://ucosp.ca as well? I've mentored for them before and it's a pretty good program in my experience.
