---
title: "2018-11-20"
parent: Meetings
---
# AWSF TAC Meeting - November 20, 2018

## Voting Member Attendees

- Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
- Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
- Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
- Brian Cipriano, Google
- Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks
- JP Panisset, VES Techincal community
- Gordon Bradley, Autodesk

## Voting Member Regrets

- Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
- Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
- Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation
- Ken Museth, OpenVDB Representative
- Henry Vera, Double Negative
- Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.
- Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios

## Voting Member Regrets

# Agenda

- New Member Introduction
  - Ken Museth - OpenVDB Representative

- Technical Project updates
  - OpenVDB

- CI updates
  - Working group

- Update on candidate projects
  - OpenEXR
  - OpenColorIO
  - CMakeTools
  - others?

- License and CLA Guidelines

- Goals for TAC: Year 1

# Action Items (AIs)

- John to follow up with OpenVDB TSC on website/domain transfer and security vulnerability management, documenting for future projects to leverage.
- CI Working group to discuss CII badge tools

# Notes

The first OpenVDB TSC meeting has taken place, along with formal recognition of the project chair and committers.  CII badge certification continues to be a challenge, requiring unfamiliar tools and questions about how to report "known issues".  Sonar Qube has previously been proposed as a component of the ASWF CI which can provide the necessary analysis tools, which will be followed up in the CI Working Group.

Larry provided an update on the OpenColorIO proposal, which has progressed to drafts for the proposal documents under internal review prior to submission.

Further templates and guidelines to assist project proposal and adoption have been prepared by John with the input of others.  The group agreed that these are ready to merge on the TAC github.

Daniel summarized some of the first year goals that had been proposed for the ASWF during the last board meeting.  The most relevant for the TAC is the goal to have 6 projects accepted by September 2019.  David expanded on this and offered to present a slide at the next meetings.  The 6 projects would require new projects to be created or identified beyond the original 3 candidates (OpenVDB, OpenColorIO, OpenEXR).  JF noted that the TAC should refer to the industry OSS survey by the VES's Sam Richards during the ASWF formation process.


# Chat
