---
title: "2018-10-10"
parent: Meetings
---
# AWSF TAC Meeting - October 10, 2018

## Voting Member Attendees

- Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
- Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
- Brian Cipriano, Google
- Henry Vera, Double Negative
- Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.
- Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
- Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
- Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios
- Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation
- Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
- Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks

## Voting Member Regrets
- Gordon Bradley, Autodesk

# Agenda

- Welcome to new members
  - Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks
  - Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios  (replacing Steve May)

- Technical Project updates
  - OpenVDB

- Update on candidate projects
  - OpenEXR
  - OpenColorIO

# Action Items (AIs)

# Notes

Andrew Pearce presented the OpenVDB Technical Charter and CLA for formal approval.  The reasons for requiring a CLA were explained primarily as making explicit an organisation's consent for the contributions of its employees.  The Linux Foundation minimal CLA was chosen.

There was discussion of the benefits and costs of CLAs and the likely scenarios for CLAs for future ASWF projects.  Larry noted that Sony currently uses an umbrella CLA for contributions to all of its OSS projects; organisations may choose to restrict this to particular projects if they desire.  Mike Dolan outlined experiences from other projects which suggested a mixture of three models will emerge for ASWF projects: no DCO, Apache CLA for Apache licenced projects, and LF minimal CLA for other licences.

Daniel suggested that the TAC might request the Governing Board refer general CLA guidance to the ASWF legal committee. 

The TAC voted unanimously to accept the OpenVDB Technical Charter and CLA.

# Chat

