---
title: "2018-10-24"
parent: Meetings
---
# AWSF TAC Meeting - October 24, 2018

## Voting Member Attendees

- Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
- Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
- Brian Cipriano, Google
- Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios
- Andrew Pierce, DreamWorks Animation ( representative alternate )
- Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
- JF Panisset, VES Techincal community
- Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks

## Voting Member Regrets

- Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
- Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.
- Henry Vera, Double Negative
- Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
- Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation
- Gordon Bradley, Autodesk

# Agenda

- Governing Board update
  - Goal of 6 projects in first year

- Proposed industry representative from VES Technical Committee: JF Panisset
  - Vote to accept

- Propose to publish template project Technical Charter in TAC github

- Technical Project updates
  - OpenVDB

- CI updates
  - GPU

- Update on candidate projects
  - OpenEXR
  - OpenColorIO
  - others?

- ASWF CI Dependencies from VFX Reference Platform

# Action Items (AIs)

- John and Daniel to work together on a recommendation for licensing for new projects coming into ASWF.
- Daniel to lead working group around VFX Reference platform being build by ASWF CI.

# Notes

Daniel gave an update from the Governing Board, sharing that Warner Brothers and Sony have both joined. Daniel also shared that the Governing Board has a goal of 6 projects accepted into the ASWF by October next year.

There was continued on the licensing/CLA recommendations for incoming projects. John said he would put together a recommendation for incoming projects and licensing/CLA usage.

Daniel welcomed JF Panisset to the TAC and asked for the TAC to approve him as an industry voting representative for the TAC. Daniel motioned, Andrew seconded, and it was unanimously approved.

Daniel asked if the TAC should publish the template project Technical Charter in TAC github, and to request all new projects publically publish thier techincal charters as well. All in attendance agreed.

Andrew shared that OpenVDB has been moved over to the ASWF, and the next step is achieving a CII Best Practices badge. John said he can work with DreamWorks on how to achieve that badge.

Thanh reported good progress and testing with the GPU, and was looking to formalize this.

OpenEXR update indicated the ILM legal and procedural process is still ongoing.

OpenColorIO update from Larry indicated that legal meetings are going well and he is working with the community itself for building the charter.

OTio update from Cory indicated they are still working out the governance processes, and hopes to have an update at the next meeting.

Daniel shared that the offer using Google Cloud was deemed to complex to take advantage of, and will not be pursuing this.

Daniel discussed a project to have the ASWF CI build out the VFX Reference Platform. Thanh discussed some options using packer or having a third party project repo for sharing them. Daniel suggested a follow up conversation in a working group to discuss this further.



# Chat
