---
title: "2019-05-08"
parent: Meetings
---
# **ASWF TAC Meeting - May 08, 2019**

## **Voting member attendance**

* [x] Daniel Heckenberg - Chairperson, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
* [ ] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
* [ ] Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
* [ ] Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
* [x] Henry Vera, Double Negative
* [x] Bill Ballew, DreamWorks
* [x] Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.
* [x] Brian Cipriano, Google
* [x] Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation
* [x] Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks
* [x] Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* [ ] Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios
* [ ] Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
* [ ] Ken Museth, OpenVDB Representative
* [x] Michael Dolan, OpenColorIO Representative
* [x] Cary Philips, OpenEXR Representative
* [x] Eric Enderton, NVIDIA

## **Apologies**

## **Other Attendees**

* David Wheeler (IDA)
* John Mertic (LF)
* Andrew Grimberg (LF)
* Greg Gewickey (WB)
* Emily Olin (LF)
* Mark Elendt (SideFX)
* Patrick Hodoul (Autodesk)
* Kevin Wheatley (Framestore)
* Cary (Cisco)
* Robert Vinluan (SideFX)

## **Agenda**

* Goals for TAC: Year 1
    * Timeline:
        * May: CI platform decision (based on at least one example setup)
            * CircleCI, Azure Pipelines
            * OpenColorIO potential candidate for integration
        * June: CII badge. At least one project graduation.
            * Expectations
            * Filters for analysis / scan shared across projects
            * Accelerate project graduation
        * July: Dependency management.
            * In context of our CI system first
            * Broader community scope

* CII Best Practices Badge discussion (David Wheeler)
    * Analysis requirements, how to interpret fairly open ended requirements and how to address them
    * Many tools used by other LF projects not applicable to our C++ projects
    * Key requirement is project must use a static analysis tool: [cppcheck](http://cppcheck.sourceforge.net/) for instance. There are suggestions to use tools that specifically check for security issues (not required).
    * Dynamic tool requirement is a suggestion, it is encouraged but is not a requirement.
    * https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/blob/master/doc/criteria.md
    * Security: no requirement that there is a "security expert" on each project, but list specific knowledge that someone must have
        * Know-secure design
        * Knowing common errors
            * E.g. [CWE top 25](https://www.sans.org/top25-software-errors)
    * Most tools provide some kind of guidance document about what should be turned on and off, apply common sense to avoid "busy work"
    * Use comment strings in code to disable specific scanner warnings
    * No specific requirements on the testing
    * Main idea is to have "something you can improve on", start with weak rules, improve over time.
    * No specific requirements for testing, except:
        * You must have automated testing in place
        * You must add new tests to cover new functionality
    * Different between green field and brown field, existing projects will typically have huge amounts of warnings
    * OpenColorIO
        * Analysis and security are areas where they have yet to make much headway
        * How to deal with legacy code that has less test coverage vs new code that has good coverage: is it mandatory to go back to improve coverage of old code? David: there are 3 badge levels, "Passing / Silver / Gold", focussing more on getting projects to “Passing” first. No strict coverage requirements for “Passing” level, there’s a “suggested” requirement for dynamic analysis. Vary the inputs / 80% coverage. For “Silver” you require 80% test coverage, of course possible to have high coverage yet a lousy test suite. Mike: OCIO has a “legacy” branch in current use, and mostly new code for the new version, so probably won’t go back and invest a lot of time in adding coverage to that old branch. David: focus at the project level, but expected that the idea is mostly “going forward”. So 80% coverage would be for the active development branch. Mike: future branch for release in 1 year or so. David: most of their projects release at a faster pace, so could target “passing” for now, “silver” for next major release.

* CI updates
    * (Andrew) Updates from LF
        * Azure pipelines still most promising candidate (3 platform, GPU support and cost)
    * Working group

* Technical Project updates
    * OpenVDB
        * Andrew: stale branch cleanup.
    * OpenColorIO
        * Azure test project
            * Michael: Setup for Linux builds.  "Task" structure seems to work well.  Using conda for dependencies as it’s built-in.  IDE on AzureDevOps for fast iteration.
            * Next steps: Sonar Cloud.  
        * CII badge progress
        * Blocker is still embedded dependencies
            * This is a candidate for other engineering resources to contribute.  Mostly CI / CMake support to gather dependencies for simple download and build workflows.
            * Have marked "Good first issue" etc for [GitHub](https://github.com/imageworks/OpenColorIO/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) issues
            * **Action item: Visible ASWF-level list of contribution opportunities (e.g. project issues) via aswf.io wiki or Github?**

    * OpenEXR
        * Cary: Use of JIRA for both project administration and software development?  OpenVDB is using ASWF JIRA instance [here](https://jira.aswf.io).  
        * Cary: Mailing list transfer to aswf.io.  Any use for separate -user, -dev, -announce lists?
            * Andrew: Historically projects started with separate lists, but now have a single list and use hashtags for filtering
            * John: Can merge list and archives (after spam removal)
        * Cary: CII best practices badge.  Github provides good basis for many criteria.  Project website needs to be updated and modernised from hand-rolled HTML.  
            * Andrew: Github pages is recommended.  LF Releng uses ReadTheDocs for its [docs](https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest/). 
            * Michael: OCIO example
            * Sphinx, ReadTheDocs.org and Github [intro.](https://dont-be-afraid-to-commit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/documentation.html)
        * OpenCue:
            * Brian: First TSC meeting.  Brian as TSC chair and TAC rep (also Google TAC rep, so may require formal voting clarification).  

## **Deferred**

* Next meeting: 22 May 2019
* LF CommunityBridge Intro (Bryan Stone, Shubhra Kar)
    * [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=feKDfwqNnCM&feature=youtu.be&list=PLbzoR-pLrL6qAgIuy5ft7CNWD7UQ4XdIS&t=2376)
* VFX Reference Platform 2020 Draft
    * [details](https://vfxplatform.com/)
* [FMX 2019 Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QCvkA02kL7LCF637kmTvYggdTo6J12TSBR60OGiXcsk/edit?usp=sharing)
    * JF: Please comment on anything I got wrong, managed to cover about 85% of the material during the 60 minute timeslot

## **Action Items (AIs)**

* **Visible ASWF-level list of contribution opportunities (e.g. project issues) via aswf.io wiki or Github?**
* **Timed agenda items as number of projects grows.**

## **Notes**

## **Chat**

