---
title: "2019-06-19"
parent: Meetings
---
# **ASWF TAC Meeting - June 19, 2019**

## **Voting member attendance**

* [ ] Daniel Heckenberg - Chairperson, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
* [ ] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk 
* [ ] Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc. 
* [ ] Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc. 
* [ ] Henry Vera, Double Negative 
* [ ] Jeff Bradley for Bill Ballew, DreamWorks
* [ ] Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc. 
* [ ] Brian Cipriano, Google 
* [ ] Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation 
* [x] Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks 
* [x] Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee 
* [x] Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios 
* [ ] Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited 
* [ ] Ken Museth, OpenVDB Representative 
* [x] Michael Dolan, OpenColorIO Representative
* [x] Cary Phillips, OpenEXR Representative 
* [x] Eric Enderton, NVIDIA

## **Apologies**

## **Other Attendees**

* Dan Bailey (ILM)
* Erik Strauss (Netflix)
* Andrew Grimberg (Linux Foundation Release Engineering)
* Sean Looper (AWS Thinkbox)

# **Agenda**

* No preset agenda
* OpenEXR CVE handling
    * Cary to dig into history of public CVEs and cross check with versions of commits / PRs that address those CVEs
    * For every release, mention which CVEs are fixed in that release
    * JF: maybe have a standard table, "CVEs.md" for instance?
    * Cary: not clear on how to update the CVEs list at mitre.org to update list with which version fixes the CVE
    * OpenEXR is the only project with current CVEs
    * Currently CVEs are buffer overflow types
* JF: Microsoft has Tech Soup program for non profits that gives $3500 yearly credit [https://www.techsoup.org/products/--G-50231--](https://www.techsoup.org/products/--G-50231--)
* Could pay for a GPU builder, or a big memory builder
* Andrew: "elastic pools" in Azure Pipelines would help with dynamic allocation
* OpenTimelineIO working on application for incubation.
    * Talking with legal group about application process, looking at templates of projects in incubation
    * Should be into the process by SIGGRAPH timeframe, some of the more time consuming aspects after SIGGRAPH
    * Trying to get out there as a signal to vendors as to the seriousness of project
* OpenEXR status
    * Cary: first steering committee meeting in a month last week, rush of progress
    * 68% complete for CII badge, progress through security issues (a lot of the requirements don’t affect the project such as cryptography)
    * Currently no build infrastructure set up
    * Progress with Azure in other projects: seems ready to start transitioning
    * Will be working on SonarCloud
    * Addressing outstanding pull requests
    * Identified a bunch that can be closed for one reason or another, those that can be accepted / integrated, and small number that needs extra work, on the cusp of getting the number of outstanding pull requests to a much lower / manageable level
    * Still 130 outstanding issues, have been marked and categorized, need to triage them and start closing them. Large number related to CMake / build system, CMake more than anything else.
    * Kimball is working on a CMake standard template projects
    * Repo transition to ASWF github transition? Not clear date yet, and not yet completely clear on what is required for this to happen. Also waiting on CLA infrastructure.
    * Trivial example of Azure Pipelines build of OpenEXR and Sonar: [https://github.com/jfpanisset/openexr](https://github.com/jfpanisset/openexr)
    * Progress on updating README information GitHub, contributing, TSC.

* OpenColorIO
    * Michael: working on pull request to update the CI to Azure Pipelines, incorporated Docker images developed by Aloys. Created an image for each project and a base image, Linux builds now using these Docker images.
    * SonarCloud is integrated as well.
    * Outstanding issue on external dependencies: Michael to take this project on, moving GitHub repo into ASWF organization.
    * John helped to move the web site to https, working on CII badge requests. CI pull request will also address a lot of CII requirements.

* OpenVDB
    * Dan: primarily looking at Azure Pipelines, building on top of Aloys work for Docker images.
    * Outstanding pull request on ASWF docker image, small issues, pulling different pieces of software from package managers vs building from source.
    * Minor issue related to GLFW library
    * Everything else is building correctly, unit tests are running
    * Merging this pull request once happy
    * Will start to expand the Docker image to include VFX Reference Platform
    * Some experimentation on personal Azure account to address Houdini builds, cannot be included in the public Docker image.
    * Andrew: Azure Pipelines provides private container registries. Dan: currently using Docker Hub. 
    * Set up quick test with registry keys for private Docker image repo
    * Images can be lighter if we pre-download Houdini and only extract the libraries we need, could also have an image with multiple Houdini versions.
    * Windows / Mac builds, SonarCloud integration still on todo list
    * Looking at security-related issues, no reported issues so far (easy to meet that CII criteria), but working on a document about the security posture of OpenVDB, will be added to the repo (TSC directory).

* Next meeting

    * 3 July 2019

