---
title: "2019-09-11"
parent: Meetings
---
# **AWSF TAC Meeting - September 11, 2019**

## Voting member attendance

* [x] Daniel Heckenberg - Chairperson, Animal Logic Pty Ltd 
* [x] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
* [x] Pilar Molina, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
* [ ] Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
* [x] Henry Vera, Double Negative
* [ ] Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
* [x] Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.
* [ ] Brian Cipriano, Google & OpenCue Representative
* [x] Sean McDuffee, Intel Corporation
* [x] Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks
* [x] Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* [x] Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios
* [x] Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
* [x] Eric Enderton, NVIDIA
* [x] Sean Looper, Amazon Web Services
* [x] Michael Min, Netflix
* [x] Gerald Tiu (Microsoft)
* [ ] Michael Johnson (Apple)
* [ ] Ken Museth, OpenVDB Representative
* [x] Michael Dolan, OpenColorIO Representative
* [x] Cary Phillips, OpenEXR Representative

## Other Attendees

* Jeff Bradley (DreamWorks Animation)
* Emily Olin (Linux Foundation)
* Andrew Grimberg (Linux Foundation)
* Doug Walker (Autodesk / OCIO)
* Jordan Soles (RodeoFX)
* Joshua Minor (Disney/Pixar)
* Nvadapalli
* Bernard Lefebvre

## Apologies

* Bill Ballew (DreamWorks Animation)

# **Changed zoom meeting:  **

[https://zoom.us/j/7800299659](https://zoom.us/j/7800299659)

# **Agenda**

* Welcome to new members
    * Michael Johnson (Apple)
    * Gerald Tiu (Microsoft)
        * Director of M&E at Microsoft Azure, covers from scripts to post. Came from industry, worked at Pixar and ILM, excited to work on projects with industry partners.

* Follow ups
    * CI documentation and sample project? (JF)
        * Nothing to share yet, but still committed to it. Will take shape of personal GitHub repo, then to be moved to ASWF when fleshed out.
        * Daniel suggest that the sample project ("teapot project") could be used to demonstrate the use of existing ASWF projects (EXR, OCIO…). Show cross project dependencies, CI integration… Should this be a separate project to avoid mixing a project that demonstrates structure vs a project that demonstrates cross project integration.
        * Gordon: components designed to work within a larger framework, how compeling an example can you build by gluing these components together?
        * Sean: can we justify this project by connecting the dots between the ASWF projects and new projects that would fill the gaps?
        * Michael Min: how far do we want to scope this effort?
        * Cary: haven’t heard discussions about an objective to build a complete pipeline within the context of ASWF. 
        * Daniel: there are other groups that have as a goal a fully open source production pipeline. Was suggesting a more modest goal to show a tutorial for developers.
        * Cary: had feedback about issues building OpenEXR as a sub-project of another CMake-based project. So more examples of CMake integration between projects would help.
        * Eric: a project that links all other projects is the hardest thing to compile

    * Member survey to guide TAC and CI efforts (Gordon)
        * Take our ad hoc surveys a step further, survey done at SIGGRAPH was not easy to determine "which voices are we hearing".
        * Propose as a first step to do a deeper dive on the raw data that was gathered.
            * What are the questions we want to answer?
            * What would be the right survey questions to answer that?
        * We should have a post mortem of how well we’ve delivered on the expected value of the member companies in the first year.
        * Asking these questions seems to be larger than just the TAC, should this topic involve / be driven by the Governing Board? Do such discussions exist?
        * Daniel: first year strategy nominally runs until end of tenure of David Morin, in the process (with Daniel) of formulating goals for next year. Interested in hearing feedback from the TAC: next steps for CI, project needs… So it’s a two way interaction.
        * Gordon: can work with David, Emily, John and Daniel to help define this to help put this together.
        * Raw data: [https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/message/860](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/message/860)

* Annual TAC chair election
    * Daniel’s tenure ends in September, discussed with John a process to elect next TAC char, will send out a call for nominations via email list. If there are more than one candidate we will vote.
    * Anyone interested should reach out to Daniel to discuss what was involved. Estimate 4-5 hrs per week.

* VOTE: OpenColorIO Graduation proposal
    * [https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/message/908](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/message/908)
        * Michael Dolan sent out proposal (see link above)
        * Healthy committer base across vendors, VFX companies and individuals
        * Healthy flow of merges and commits
        * Completed CII badge
        * License scan completed (initial issues with embedded dependencies and their licenses)
        * ASWF has really helped with organization of governance and structure, documentation, contribution, security… Highly beneficial to the value of the project, and help new participation.
        * Value of OCIO to ASWF mission: project is well adopted in the industry, including outside the VFX industry (games). Speaks for itself. Looking forward to OCIO v2 next summer.
        * Daniel: project has been excellent at contributing to TAC process, CI system, setting of direction.
        * Andrew: project not yet migrated to ASWF GitHub, but will be done soon.
        * Quorum is met
        * Daniel proposes motion for graduation, Gordon seconds.
        * Many ayes, no abstains, no against. Motion passes unanimously, will be recommended to Governing Board for graduated status.

* Goals for TAC: Year 2
    * CI
    * Dependency management
    * Security expertise and processes
    * Documentation standards and standardization
    * Vector / matrix library

* Technical Project updates
    * OpenVDB
    * OpenColorIO
    * OpenEXR
        * Cary: beta release is out, feedback about CMake issues when building in context of larger CMake-based project.
        * Will be working on more disruptive changes.
        * Moving repo to ASWF GitHub waiting on CLA setup (business / legal)
        * Eager to move on splitting imath to separate project. Will touch on issues of whether it’s a separate, independent project, in a different repo with different license, CLA… Or is there a notion of a "dependant" project that shares infrastructure?
        * Could ASWF project inherit from a base project for some infrastructure (licensing / doc)?
    * OpenCue
    * OpenTimelineIO

* CI updates
    * GPU build agents -- hosting?
        * Not covered by free Azure build agents
        * Andrew: Azure Pipelines does not support a free pool of GPU builders. In talk with representatives at Azure Pipelines, where is Microsoft on roadmap with dynamic pool? 
        * We (LF) have found a way to pretty easily deal with the cost model to manage Azure resources. Would be an option to spin up some managed pools.
        * Brings up issue of Jenkins environment: recommend to turn down that environment to save those costs. There’s a non trivial amount of work to spin up that infrastructure, takes about 2 days of work to spin up that environment.
        * Kimball: do we see ever needing Jenkins in the future? Andrew: OpenCue went to Azure Pipelines directly.
        * Kimball: move to decommission Jenkins, Larry seconds.
        * All Ayes, no opposed or abstain. Vote carries. Andrew to stand down the ASWF Jenkins infrastructure costs.
        * Sean: AWS would be happy to provide funding for GPU instances. Can use any resources for Azure Pipelines builds.
        * May need to use Mac Stadium for Mac GPU, but OCIO is happy with just Linux for now for their test suite. Doug: would be happy to test on Mac and Windows as well.

* Update on candidate projects
    * Rez

* Blog
    * Emily: launching ASWF blogs, call for participation went out on mailing list

* Next meetings
    * CI working group: 18 September 2019
    * TAC: 25 September 2019

# **Action Items (AIs)**

# **Notes**

# **Chat**

