---
title: "2019-07-17"
parent: Meetings
---
# AWSF TAC Meeting - July 17, 2019

## Voting member attendance

* [x] Daniel Heckenberg - Chairperson, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
* [x] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
* [ ] Mark McGuire, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
* [ ] Michael O’Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
* [x] Henry Vera, Double Negative
* [x] Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
* [x] Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.
* [x] Brian Cipriano, Google & OpenCue Representative
* [ ] Jim Jeffers, Intel Corporation
* [x] Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks
* [x] Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* [ ] Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios
* [x] Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
* [x] Ken Museth, OpenVDB Representative
* [x] Michael Dolan, OpenColorIO Representative
* [x] Cary Phillips, OpenEXR Representative
* [x] Eric Enderton, NVIDIA

## Other attendees

* Dan Bailey, ILM
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks
* Mark Elendt, SideFX
* Andrew Grimberg, Linux Foundation Release Engineering
* Greg Gewickey, Warner Brothers
* John Mertic, Linux Foundation
* Doug Walker, Autodesk
* Sean Wallitsch, Dreamworks

# Agenda

## Goals for TAC: Year 1 (0:00-0:05)
  - June: CII badge passing, project graduation
  - July: Dependency management

## Project Contribution Proposal: OpenTimelineIO (0:05-0:20)
  - [Proposal form](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/message/768)
 
### Presentation from Josh Minor Stephan Steinbach, Cory:
  - Interchange format and API for dealing with editorial information.
  - On disk serialization and translation between proprietary formats.
  - Used at PIxar and contributions from Netflix and studios.  
  - Targeting 1.0 later this year.  Porting from Python to C++.
  - Minimal external dependencies (no Boost).  Designed for embedding in other apps.
  - Henry: Working with it at DNeg.
  - Matt: Looking forward to C++ version.
  - Larry: Would be nice to see proposed governance docs, similar to previous projects.
  - Daniel: A project could be accepted into incubation even without those docs.

## OpenVDB Graduation Proposal (0:20-0:30)
  - [Project lifecycle](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/blob/master/process/lifecycle.md)
 - CII Best Practice: https://bestpractices.coreinfr
astructure.org/en/projects/2774
  - Ken: Passing everything except a few non-critical dynamic tests.  Just fixed copyright notices.
  - Daniel: Pls elaborate on security issues and impact on project.
  - Ken: It was a lot of work!  Transitioned from make to cmake, better support for other platforms.  Many other changes over 4-5 months.  Propose hiring a security expert that could work across multiple projects.
  - Cary: Reached out for security experts but unable to locate someone thus far.
  - Gordon: We need to decide what level of security we will aim for.
  - Several members saying it is a big ask for individual projects.  May need help from LF.
  - Daniel: Could potentially hire help around security.  
  - Kimball: Probably not a full time position, as much a political as technical challenge.
  - Daniel, Gordon: OpenVDB has broken ground at every step.  Wonderful to see the contributions and work done.
  - Ken: Many thanks to Dan Bailey and rest of team!
  - Daniel: Need TAC and Governing board vote on this.  TAC email vote will proceed straight away.

  - Committers: 
  
    - https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md
    - https://www.openvdb.org/about/
    - https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb/blob/master/tsc/charter.md


## SIGGRAPH update (0:30-040)
  - Schedule:  https://www.aswf.io/siggraph2019/
  - Daniel: Main ASWF BoF is at 8am on Tuesday.  Need to start getting the word out.
  - Larry/John: The event schedule is challenging, recommend revising the process next year.
  - Eric: Would be helpful to have cost/benefit pitch available to projects.


## Technical Project updates (0:40-0:50)
  - OpenColorIO
    - Michael: CII badge at 97%, getting close to graduating.  Working on license scan and removing certain third-party dependencies.  Updated CMake to pull in third-parties and build.
  - OpenEXR
   - Cary: Kimball has put a lot of work into improving CMake.  Looking to improve documentation.  Looking at license scan.  Close to moving repo to ASWF.  Made progress on security with help from Kimball and Peter Hillman.  Plan to do a release soon after SIGGRAPH.
   - Cary: Interesting to compare activity now, 1 year ago, 2 years ago, and 1 year from now. After last Siggraph release, project went nearly dormant again. Won’t happen this year.
   - Having the foundation behind them has been helpful, same people involved but the formal process and organization has been helpful.
  - OpenCue
   - Brian: Set up Azure pipeline, will provide more updates at CI meeting.

## CI updates (0:50-0:55)
  - Working group
  - (No time)

## Update on candidate projects
  - (No time)

# Next meeting:
  - [SIGGRAPH Face to Face TAC meeting, Wed 21 July, 2:30pm - 3:30pm](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/viewevent?eventid=494947&calstart=2019-07-31)

# Action Items (AIs)

# Notes

# Chat




