---
title: "2020-01-15"
parent: Meetings
---
# AWSF TAC Meeting - January 15, 2020

## Voting member attendance

* [x] Daniel Heckenberg - Chairperson, Animal Logic Pty Ltd
* [x] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
* [x] Pilar Molina Lopez, Blue Sky Studios, Inc.
* [ ] Michael Oâ€™Gorman, Cisco Systems Inc.
* [ ] Henry Vera, Double Negative
* [ ] Bill Ballew, DreamWorks Animation
* [ ] Matt Kuhlenschmidt, Epic Games, Inc.
* [x] Brian Cipriano, Google & OpenCue Representative
* [ ] Sean C McDuffee, Intel Corporation
* [x] Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks
* [ ] Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* [x] Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios
* [x] Kimball Thurston, Weta Digital Limited
* [x] Eric Enderton, NVIDIA
* [x] Sean Looper, Amazon Web Services
* [x] Michael Min, Netflix
* [ ] Michael B. Johnson, Apple
* [ ] Dave Fellows, Microsoft
* [ ] Ken Museth, OpenVDB Representative
* [x] Michael Dolan, OpenColorIO Representative
* [x] Cary Phillips, OpenEXR Representative
* [x] Joshua Minor, OpenTimelineIO Representative

## Other Attendees

* Patrick Hodoul, Autodesk & OpenColorIO
* Andrew Grimberg, Linux Foundation Release Engineering
* Alex Meddick, Rising Sun Pictures

## Agenda

* Survey Results & Discussion
    * Results for priorities on 2020 goals
        1. Overall developer engagement (14 / 56%)
        2. Diversity & Inclusion (11 / 44%)
        3. Support Python 3 migration (10 / 40%)
        4. Better integration with VFX reference platform (8 / 32%)
        5. Cross platform/GPU support (7 / 28%)
        6. Adopting more projects (7 / 28%)
        7. Funding developer capacity to tackle gaps in open source projects (7 / 28%)
        8. Improved build infrastructure (6 / 24%)
        9. Supporting project security (4 / 16%)
        10. Suggest / foster projects to enable sharing of common code chunks (4 / 16%)
        11. Other: More member company developers casually contributing to projects they use (1 / 4%)
    * Gordon, Sean, Brian: Is this specifically for TAC, or for Foundation more broadly?
    * Goal priorities for Foundation, therefore can and should draw on Board and Outreach Committee, esp for 1, 2, 7.

* Goals for TAC: Year 2
    * Daniel: generally good alignment with survey results. Need to find objectives for developer engagement and diversity & inclusion.
    * Sean: Roadmaps as a requirement for all projects? Would be a useful part of project documentation goals, along with mission statement etc.

* Google Summer of Code (Larry)
    * Deadline approaching: [Google Summer of Code - How It Works](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/how-it-works/)
    * Project ideas for individual ASWF projects, also at shared level (infrastructure etc)
    * Good opportunities to mentor developers to incorporate ASWF projects into other open source systems (e.g. OCIO into another system)
    * Time required for project proposals and also mentoring for successful students / projects
    * Ideas from Project Chairs?
        * OpenCue, OCIO, OpenEXR

* CI updates
    * Working group -- no meetings yet
    * Andrew: working on standing up long-lived AWS instances for GPU builds

* Update on candidate projects
    * Media player?  
        * Consistent request from survey results for an ASWF project
        * Why? Already existing commercial, proprietary and open source offerings
        * Henry: all options seem non viable for future development
        * Cary: Reach out to Darby to talk to group about his experiences with DJV
    * Kimball: rawtoaces discussions with Academy

* Next meeting
    * 29 January 2020
        * shift to meeting just prior to plenary meeting?
    * 30 January 2020: ASWF Plenary @ AMPAS LA

## Action Items (AIs)

* Larry: Start Google Summer of Code process
* Daniel: Reach out to Darby Johnson re: open source media players
* Daniel: Arrange and propose TAC face to face meeting before ASWF plenary (30 Jan)
* Andrew: Continue on GPU build instance provisioning, report back to CI working group

## Notes

## Chat
