---
parent: Meetings
title: "2022-02-23"
---
# **ASWF TAC Meeting - February 23, 2022**

[Video Conference Link](https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09)

## Voting member attendance

* [x] Kimball Thurston - Chairperson, Weta Digital Limited
* [ ] Bill Roberts, Adobe
* [ ] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
* [x] Roy C Anthony, DNEG
* [x] Matthew Low, DreamWorks Animation
* [x] Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, Epic Games, Inc.
* [x] Brian Cipriano, Google & OpenCue Representative
* [ ] Sean C McDuffee, Intel Corporation
* [x] Larry Gritz, Sony Pictures Imageworks
* [x] Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* [x] Cory Omand, The Walt Disney Studios
* [ ] Daniel Heckenberg - Animal Logic Pty Ltd / Industry Representative
* [ ] Eric Enderton, NVIDIA & Asset Repo Representative
* [x] Sean Looper, Amazon Web Services
* [ ] Michael Min, Netflix
* [x] Michael B. Johnson, Apple
* [x] Greg Denton, Microsoft
* [ ] Sean O'Connell, Advanced Micro Devices
* [x] Mark Visser, Unity Technologies
* [x] Ken Museth, OpenVDB Representative
* [x] Carol Payne, OpenColorIO Representative
* [x] Cary Phillips, OpenEXR Representative
* [ ] Joshua Minor, OpenTimelineIO Representative
* [ ] Chris Kulla, Open Shading Language Representative
* [x] Jonathan Stone, MaterialX Representative

## Other Attendees

* John Mertic, Linux Foundation
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Alix Robinson, LF
* JT Nelson, Pasadena Open Source consortium / SoCal Blender group
* Scott Wilson, Rust WG
* Deke Kincaid, Digital Domain
* Allen Rose, Madison Square Garden Entertainment
* Nick Porcino, Pixar Animation Studios
* Scott Wilson, Rust WG
* Deb Giles, Linux Foundation Events
* Sergio Rojas, Arena World
* Allan Johns, Rez

## Apologies

* Chris Kulla, Open Shading Language Representative

## Agenda

* Open Source Forum update
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Fzt9uBCD9DljAjPPZueQhxW4vu3jnvUje0WSyeqaIKI/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Fzt9uBCD9DljAjPPZueQhxW4vu3jnvUje0WSyeqaIKI/edit?usp=sharing)
    * What are major themes we want to talk about?
        * Each section could highlight how working with other projects
        * Want to show that there's value being part of a larger organization
        * CI is a big benefit, so should be covered
        * Brian: we want to avoid every project and WG doing a separate discussion. Kimball: but yes, we don't have atime for everybody to have 5 minutes, but can we combine some? Or have some flow / consistency. Everyone should have the chance to give an update.
        * Brian: could get dry if we go through each one by one. So yes, interesting to try to extract themes.
        * Missing notes from OpenVDB, OTIO, raw2aces, or the WGs.
        * Cary: most of the project updates will be a version of "we put out a bunch of releases, fixed a bunch of bugs, put out a bunch of documentation". Is there a way to consolidate this / coordinate update fmor all projects?
        * John: could we leverage some of the graphics from LF? Wave: yes, some of the generated graphics would be useful.
        * John: what do we want to accentuate, year over year comparison for instance? Compare year they came in vs last year?
        * Kimball: could also show how releases are distributed throughout the year.
        * Cary: have a single timeline will all the project releases?
        * Should we talk about value of coordinate with VFX Platform?
        * Ken: should every project talk about its roadmap?
        * Kimball: having a coordinated single timeline means projects don't have to talk about details of releases.
        * Cary: can make a blanket statement about the value delivered by the projects. Execs don't want to sit through repeated statements from each projects.
        * John: goal of event is to show the center of gravity happening at the Foundation. Also how projects are growing in the industry. Get us out of the details of "how many bugs a project closed last year".
        * Ken: don't want to lean too much on dry stats of "how many commits", gives a skewed view.
        * Could also be interesting to get description of integration of ASWF projects into new packages: OSL / MaterialX / OCIO integrated in more packages in the last year. Speaks to the power of ASWF in its ability to get more industry support.
        * Also a graph showing cross-pollination that happened. Could be moot for OpenEXR which is supported everywhere, but for some of the newer projects like MaterialX, it's important. Kimball: similarly for OTIO.
        * Also recent work in Rez happening from Rust WG is another good example. Benefit to the project getting Rust expertise it didn't previously had.
        * Kimball: separate theme of WGs having influence on projects, or vice versa
        * Cary: most important message is not "look at the great work we did", or "look at work we are planning to do", it's "we need your (financial) support". We need to phrase the dependency of our plans on additional support. It's not an easy message to convey.
        * Wave: could be easier to say "this is where the conversation is happening, for open source in this space". If you want to be part of it, you need to be part of ASWF.
        * Carol: yes, you need to be involved, and here's why. Wave: showing how our projects are being used. Carol: or maybe an example per project. For instance increase in use of OCIO over time. We can tie back and credit ASWF with energizing of the projects.
        * Allen: how do you determine where a project is used in the first place, Rez has had this problem in the past.
        * Jonathan: based on conversations without ASWF forum.
        * Larry: transformed situation where each company may have had 1 or 2 experts on a topic, to now these people having a place to get together and accelerate progress. WGs are almost as important as projects, finally there's someone to bounce ideas off and collaborate. Something that ASWF brings to the table that wasn't there before.
        * Allen: could ASWF help track use of projects? Wave: there have been surveys, by ASWF, also at pipeline conference. Carol: ASWF did its own survey last year, but it's voluntary. Larry: most projects may have an internal list of "films and facilities" that use the project, but you only know about the ones someone's told you about. "Imdb for open source projects"?
        * Scott: expectation for presentation is that we wall grab from PowerPoint template, fill our section, put it somewhere, how will be presenting this? Kimball: good point, is anyone going to be in person? Carol: yes. Chris from OSL also. May need to ask someone who is there in person to be the "zoom proxy" to drive the presentation. Carol: yes, can do it.
        * Kimball: someone should give a 5 minute overview slide, and have all the presentations in a single deck to avoid lag of switching. Not sure how we'll do timers. We're not far enough along for messaging / roadmap, but should have OSL and MaterialX near each other, maybe also USD WG.
        * Cary: we should all weave into our presentations a statement about what we need. Members are probably asking themselves about their continued engagement with the foundation. We need to be clear about "how can you help".
        * Scott: do we also have a point of contact to make sure that what we produce for each project / wg is in line with the overall "story" we want to tell? Kimball: yes, David will make sure the messaging is good.
        * John: we want to collect "enough" of the interesting stuff happening in projects. But the ask is to get some of the feedback happening in your project / WG in the document to have enough material.
        * Wave: "what do we need", but also "what do you get of value" from this project. "Here's why you want to be in the mix with out", and not just sit on the sideline and let others do it. Jonathan: not just talk about projects integrating, but also talking about conversations between vendors and ASWF projects. Wave: in the Asset project, pulling assets from organizations that will be made available to the community, but wouldn't otherwise have a home.
        * Sean: Do we want to paint a picture of the health of the projects within the ASWF? Need for contributions, funding... From outside perspective, maybe want to see more specific data, "you rely on OpenEXR, it needs help, and this is why and what it will do for you". Kimball: we now have examples of projects like OCIO where contributions from various people can ramp up or down, people can attend TSCs. Sean: if we have a spotlight on a success story, for instance the Asset project, "less stick more carrot". Take a positive approach.
        * Sean: we have the interviews of members on ASWF web site, could that be weaved into it as a form of PR? Success stories within our projects, for instance we could have an interview with Wave on the success of the Asset project. Trying to see if there's a way to have ongoing ways to draw attention to our achievements outside of the Open Source Forum for instance. Kimball: yes, will defer to Alix.
        * Jonathan: should we focus on a handful of pretty pictures and talk over that, as opposed to a bunch of bullet points? Carol: it can be tricky to get clearance.
        * Carol: we want to fill out what's already in the Google Sheet, is there a separate ask on top of that? Or will be need more? Kimball: meeting with David tomorrow morning, will put together the template slide deck and send that out, and then everyone can fill out their own slides. Can leverage Asset Project for pictures, and how they are relevant to each project.
        * John: if we can get that together in the next couple of days, we can put the whole message together. Need the data from each project / WG, doesn't need to be beautiful as it will be reformatted.
        * Scott: step 1 is to fill out the document, once we have copies of the final slides, we can refer to our slides during our talk. Will we get a "speaker" link email? Deb [dgiles@linuxfoundation.org](mailto:dgiles@linuxfoundation.org) from events team: can send a link to register [https://events.linuxfoundation.org/aswf-open-source-forum/register/](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/aswf-open-source-forum/register/) (code ASWFOSF2022), and will send a link for joining virtually 1-2 days before event. Alix: also another email going out tomorrow with invitation details. Scott: will make sure to have the Zoom link ahead of time. Slide deck will be likely a Google slide deck so can add presenter notes.
* Pipeline WG reach out? Scott Wilson will reach out.
    * Is there a proposal? Think so, something was written in November?
