---
parent: Meetings
title: "2023-10-18"
---

# Academy Software Foundation - Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting - October 18, 2023

Join the meeting at [https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97880950229?password=81d2940e-c055-43b9-9b5a-6cd7d7090feb](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97880950229?password=81d2940e-c055-43b9-9b5a-6cd7d7090feb)

## Voting member attendance

### Premier member Representatives

- [ ] Bill Roberts - Adobe Inc.
- [ ] Brian Cipriano - Google LLC
- [x] Cory Omand - The Walt Disney Studios
- [ ] Eric Enderton - NVIDIA Corporation
- [x] Eric Reinecke - Netflix, Inc.
- [ ] Erik Niemeyer - Intel Corporation
- [x] Esteban Papp - Amazon Web Services, Inc.
- [ ] Gordon Bradley - Autodesk
- [ ] Greg Denton - Microsoft Corporation
- [ ] Jean-Michel Dignard - Epic Games, Inc
- [x] Kimball Thurston - Weta Digital Limited
- [x] Larry Gritz - Sony Pictures Imageworks
- [ ] Mark Visser - Unity Technologies
- [x] Matthew Low - DreamWorks Animation
- [x] Michael B Johnson - Apple Inc.
- [ ] Scott Dyer - Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
- [ ] Sean O'Connell - Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)
- [ ] Tony Micilotta - DNEG

### Project Representatives

- [x] Carol Payne - OpenColorIO Representative
- [x] Cary Phillips - OpenEXR Representative
- [x] Chris Kulla - Open Shading Language (OSL) Representative
- [x] Jonathan Stone - MaterialX Representative
- [ ] Joshua Minor - OpenTimelineIO Representative
- [ ] Ken Museth - OpenVDB Representative

### Industry Representatives

- [ ] Jean-Francois Panisset - Visual Effects Society

## Non Voting Projects, Working Groups, Linux Foundation

- [ ] Alexander Forsythe - RAW to ACES Utility Representative
- [ ] Alexander Schwank - USD Working Group Representative
- [x] Daniel Greenstein - OpenImageIO Representative
- [ ] Erik Strauss - Open Review Initiative Representative
- [ ] Gary Oberbrunner - OpenFX Representative
- [x] Jean-Christophe Morin - Rez Representative
- [ ] Nick Porcino - USD Working Group Representative
- [x] Rachel Rose - D&I Working Group Representative
- [ ] Scott Wilson - Working Group for Rust Bindings Representative
- [x] Stephen Mackenzie - Rez Representative
- [ ] Tom Cowland - OpenAssetIO Representative
- [x] David Morin - Epic Games
- [x] Emily Olin - Academy Software Foundation
- [x] John Mertic - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Yarille Kilborn - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Andrew Grimberg - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Dede Kincaid
- [x] JT Nelson
- [x] Olga Avramenko
- [x] Joseph Goldstone
- [x] Bill Ballew

## Other Attendees

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it
is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in
accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore
extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of,
and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US
state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings
and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux
Foundation Antitrust Policy available at
[linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy).
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel,
or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew
Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to
the Linux Foundation.

## Agenda

- Discuss use of OpenSSF Best Practices badge in lifecycle stage requirements. [#502](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/502)
- Transition to LFX Meeting Management [#460](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/460)
- Swag Store feedback [#446](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/446)
- Dev Days Recap [#476](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/476)
- Annual Review - D&I Working Group [#473](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/473)
- Project Proposal - OpenQMC [#434](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/434)

## Notes

- Ms. Payne provided a recap of Dev days, noting seven participating companies. Ms. Avranenko presented stats from the participants. She also reviewed a brief list areas where the event can improve for the future. Ms. Payne outlined the plans for the future. Mr. Gritz spoke about the attendee mix.
- D&I Working Group TAC Update
  - Ms. Payne and Ms. Rose presented an update of the D&I working group and reviewed the focus areas.
  - Looking at forming a steering committee.
