---
parent: Meetings
title: "2024-01-10"
---

# Academy Software Foundation - Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting - January 10, 2024

Join the meeting at [https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97880950229?password=81d2940e-c055-43b9-9b5a-6cd7d7090feb](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97880950229?password=81d2940e-c055-43b9-9b5a-6cd7d7090feb)

## Voting member attendance

### Premier member Representatives

- [ ] Bill Roberts - Adobe Inc.
- [ ] Brian Cipriano - Google LLC
- [x] Cory Omand - The Walt Disney Studios
- [ ] Eric Enderton - NVIDIA Corporation
- [x] Eric Reinecke - Netflix, Inc.
- [ ] Erik Niemeyer - Intel Corporation
- [x] Gordon Bradley - Autodesk
- [ ] Greg Denton - Microsoft Corporation
- [x] Jean-Michel Dignard - Epic Games, Inc
- [x] Kimball Thurston - Weta Digital Limited
- [x] Larry Gritz - Sony Pictures Imageworks
- [x] Matthew Low - DreamWorks Animation
- [x] Michael B Johnson - Apple Inc.
- [ ] Ross Dickson - Amazon Web Services, Inc.
- [ ] Scott Dyer - Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
- [ ] Sean O'Connell - Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)
- [ ] Tony Micilotta - DNEG

### Project Representatives

- [x] Carol Payne - OpenColorIO Representative
- [x] Cary Phillips - OpenEXR Representative
- [x] Ken Museth - OpenVDB Representative
- [x] Jonathan Stone - MaterialX Representative

### Industry Representatives

- [ ] Jean-Francois Panisset - Visual Effects Society

## Non Voting Projects, Working Groups, Linux Foundation

- [x] Alexander Forsythe - RAW to ACES Utility Representative
- [ ] Alexander Schwank - USD Working Group Representative
- [ ] Daniel Greenstein - OpenImageIO Representative
- [ ] Erik Strauss - Open Review Initiative Representative
- [x] Chris Kulla - Open Shading Language (OSL) Representative
- [ ] Gary Oberbrunner - OpenFX Representative
- [ ] Jean-Christophe Morin - Rez Representative
- [x] Nick Porcino - USD Working Group Representative
- [ ] Rachel Rose - D&I Working Group Representative
- [ ] Scott Wilson - Working Group for Rust Bindings Representative
- [x] Stephen Mackenzie - Rez Representative
- [x] David Morin - Academy Software Foundation
- [ ] Emily Olin - Academy Software Foundation
- [x] John Mertic - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Yarille Kilborn - The Linux Foundation

## Other Attendees

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it
is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in
accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore
extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of,
and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US
state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings
and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux
Foundation Antitrust Policy available at
[linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy).
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel,
or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew
Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to
the Linux Foundation.

## Agenda

- Updates
  - TAC Meeting Schedule - December 2023 and January 2024 [#546](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/546)
  - guidance/input to Apple re: Uniform Type Identifiers for the various ASWF projects  [#541](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/541)
  - Project Proposal - OpenQMC [#434](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/434)
  - Transition to LFX Meeting Management [#460]
  - Discuss use of OpenSSF Best Practices badge in lifecycle stage requirements. [#502](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/502)
  - TAC Chairperson and Industry Representative re-election [#537](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/537)
  - Help with Security Reviews for hosted projects [#554](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/554)
  - Open Source Forum 2024 Reminders [#568](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/568)
  - Transition to LFX Meeting Management  [#460](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/460)
- Annual Review - rawtoaces [#475](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/475)
- Annual Review - OpenVDB [#480](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/480)

## Notes

Mr. Mertic reviewed the updates in the agenda. Specific points discussed included.

- Working with OpenEXR and OpenCue to get the last projects over to using PCC Meeting Management
- Reviewed the current status of projects who have completed the various OpenSSF requirements. Project leads will update their badges over the next 4 weeks, and then at the next TAC meeting the TAC will align on a plan to indicate which badge requirements will be removed temporarily from the lifecycle requirements.
- Dirav to share in [#541](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/541) proposed Uniform Type Identifiers, and TSCs can comment to approve.

Alexander Forsythe led the rawtoaces annual review, indicating that the project was stalled for a bit due to resource constraints, but is looking to become more active over the coming weeks. TAC members requested that the code repository to be updated to match the standards of the lifecycle requirements.

- The rawtoaces project was on hold for most of the past year, waiting for a significant code contribution from Weta and partly due to a lack of developer resources.
- The delay in receiving Weta's contribution was due to internal IP issues at Weta, which have now been resolved.
- A new Technical Steering Committee (TSC) member, Anton Dukhovnikov, has joined the project and is driving code development.
- The immediate focus has been on resolving build issues, open pull requests, setting up the Continuous Integration (CI) system, migrating the license to Apache 2.0, and establishing the Contributor License Agreement (CLA).
- Following the resolution of these initial tasks, the project will integrate the Weta code, marking the start of development for rawtoaces version 2. This new version will adopt a more modular design and support a plugin-style architecture for enhanced extensibility. Camera data will be stored in a separate repository.

Due to quorum, the vote to renew the project will be held via email.

Ken Museth led the OpenVDB annual review. TAC members in attendance were pleased with the project's status and progress.

Due to quorum, the vote to renew the project will be held via email.
