---
grand_parent: Programs
parent: Google Summer of Code
---
# ASWF Google Summer of Code 2020

The Academy Software Foundation (ASWF) is collaboration between the Linux
Foundation and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, serving as
an umbrella organization that is the home to several key open source
software projects used by the film industry (primarily visual effects and
animation production). The projects we manage are some of the most
high-profile and widely used open source projects originating and used in
film production studios. It's a great opportunity for students to get
involved with projects that will be used professionally on films!

The mission of the ASWF is to increase the quality and quantity of
contributions to the content creation industry's open source software base;
to provide a neutral forum to coordinate cross-project efforts; to provide a
common build and test infrastructure; and to provide individuals and
organizations a clear path to participation in advancing our open source
ecosystem.

Member projects are focused primarily on visual effects and animation
production, and at present include 5 distinct software packages. Student
summer project applications can be for any of these packages individually,
as well as potentially including tasks that bridge between them or provide
common infrastructure (they share CI and other resources). The current
member projects are:

* **OpenColorIO** : A complete color management solution geared towards
  motion picture production with an emphasis on visual effects and computer
  animation.

* **OpenCue** : A render management / job queueing system you can deploy for
  visual effects and animation productions.

* **OpenEXR** : The specification and reference implementation of the EXR
  file format, the professional-grade image storage format of the motion
  picture industry.

* **Open Shading Language** : The de facto standard shading and pattern
  language of physically-based renderers used for film VFX and animation.

* **OpenTimelineIO** : API and interchange format for editorial timeline
  information.

* **OpenVDB** : Hierarchical data structure and a suite of tools for the
  efficient storage and manipulation of sparse volumetric data.


## Application Instructions for Students

Please familiarize yourself with the several software projects under our
organization. The individual projects are listed below with their home
pages, GitHub repositories, and a list of possible projects.

You may choose a summer task from any of our software projects. It is also
permissible to propose (a) a task that is common infrastructure shared by
the projects, such as with our CI system; (b) a task that crosses project
boundaries or involves two projects; (c) a task that is technically in a
non-ASWF code base but for which our organization is an appropriate mentor
(as an illustrative example: adding comprehensive OpenColorIO support to a
widely used open source project).

All of our projects maintain their own CONTRIBUTING guidelines, please read
them for the project you are interested in. They each also have separate
contributor license agreements (CLAs) which must be signed for them to
accept contributions.

**Successfully submitting a Pull Request to the ASWF software project you are
applying to is a strict requirement prior to submitting an application.**
This is not negotiable. We will not even read applications from students who
have not submitted an acceptable PR to the project they are applying to
participate in. It can be a truly minimal change -- for example, fixing a
typo in an error message. The purpose of this requirement is to prove that
you already have the skills to set up a GitHub login, successfully clone the
project, build it, make a change, submit a PR, and interact with the
community for code review.

In addition to ideas listed below, the GitHub "Issues" page for each project
will have issues tagged "GSoC" if they seem like an appropriate size for a
GSoC summer project. You will also see many issues tagged "good first
issue", those might be ideal candidates for your small trial PR to qualify
for application.

Individual project's developer mail lists can be found here:
https://lists.aswf.io/


## Application template

Please use this application template. You don't have to stick precisely to
this, feel free to expand or tell us any other relevant details, but this is
a good place to start.

The applications will be judged both by the individual leadership teams of
the software project you propose to work on, as well as representatives of
the ASWF technical advisory council.

    Student name:

    School / year / area of study:

    Relevant courses, materials studied, jobs, programming projects, skills,
    other open source projects you've contributed to. Go ahead and tell us
    anything about your background that you think we will find interesting
    for our projects.

    ASWF project you are interested in:

    Project proposal:

    What would you like to do for your summer project?  Please explain in
    detail what it is, why it is important, how it fits into the ASWF
    project's overall design and goals.  Give specifics on acceptance
    criteria -- how we can measure your success, how we can test your code.
    Give a week-by-week timeline for expected progress and how it can be
    measured.

    Tell us about your interest in this project, what you hope to
    contribute, and what you hope to get from this experience:

    We will not review applications from students who have not contributed a
    patch to ASWF by the application deadline.  It doesn't have to be
    big -- a short bug fix, a new test case for a unit test, an improved
    error message, fixing unclear documentation.  But you must prove that
    you can check out the project, build it, find something to improve, make
    the change, communicate with the other developers, and survive our
    rigorous code review.  Please tell us below which fix you contributed:



## Project information and suggested ideas list


### OpenColorIO

Home page:  https://opencolorio.org/ <br>
GitHub:     https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenColorIO <br>
Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: C++11, CMake, color science

Mentor suggestions: Patrick Hodoul, Doug Walker, Michael Dolan

**Project Ideas**:

* Add Metal, Vulkan, or CUDA language support to GPU renderer
    - The OCIO Processor currently supports rendering color transforms on a GPU 
      with GLSL (OpenGL), HLSL (DirectX), or CG. With Apple deprecating OpenGL 
      support and the availability of several additional high-performance GPU 
      computing platforms, we desire to add shader language support for one or 
      more of these to expand the capability and reach of OCIO. This will also 
      be a critical need for OCIO to maintain full cross-platform support.
    - Special skills: Familiar with C++, shader development, and implementing 
      graphics APIs.

* Restore Java bindings
    - The OCIO Java language bindings have not yet been updated to support the
      newly developed OCIO v2 API. Java provides additional Android platform 
      support, but needs some effort to revive. Additionally, adding Java unit
      test support to OCIO's CI infrastructure would help maintain the 
      functionality as OCIO continues to evolve.
    - Special skills: Comfortable with Java, with some knowledge of wrapping a 
      C++ library with the JNI.
    
* Add OCIO support to FFmpeg or another FOSS project
    - An important effort for OCIO is expanding the libraries and applications 
      where OCIO is implemented. Users have specifically called out FFmpeg as 
      a library and command-line tool where they would like to see OCIO 
      support, but any other FOSS project leveraged by digital artists or 
      production pipelines could be considered. This could also include 
      upgrading an existing implementation to support the OCIO v2 API and 
      leverage new functionality.
    - Special skills: Familiarity with prospective host library or tool, 
      and knowledge of working with image buffers and authoring plugins.

* Develop GUI for interactive OCIO config authoring and visualization
    - OCIO is all about color management, but the visual results of a config 
      author's decisions are not verifiable until the config is generated and 
      loaded into a host application. Learning and using OCIO could be greatky
      aided with a GUI which provides interactive visual feedback and 
      validation while a config is being authored. This could be a standalone 
      Qt or PySide application, or an expanded plugin within an existing 
      graphics application like Foundry's Nuke.
    - Special skills: Experience with GUI and graphics programming in C++ or 
      Python, understanding of UX, and interest in data visualization.

### OpenCue

Home page:  https://www.opencue.io <br>
GitHub:     https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenCue <br>
Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: Python, Java

Mentor suggestion: Brian Cipriano

**Getting Started**:

Contact Brian Cipriano <<cipriano@google.com>> and join the [opencue-dev list](https://lists.aswf.io/g/opencue-dev).

**Project Ideas**:

* Create a Web GUI
    - Design and begin implementation on a new, web-based GUI to eventually
      replace OpenCue's existing PySide2 application GUI. This will consist
      mostly of front-end work; the new GUI should use the existing OpenCue
      API on the back-end. Design, including tech stack to be used, will be
      done in collaboration with the project leads.
    - Special skills: UI/UX design, front-end development

* Create a REST API
    - Create a REST API to complement OpenCue's existing gRPC API. Backend
      should be mostly shared between the two.
    - Special skills: REST API design

* Create a Cloud Management Plugin
    - Extend the OpenCue GUI to add a plugin for scaling the pool of OpenCue
      workers running in the cloud. The plugin should use at least
      one of the major cloud providers (Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, or
      Amazon Web Services) but should be designed in way where other cloud
      providers can be easily added.
    - Special skills: Cloud development and APIs

* Create Installers/Launchers
    - Create installers (.exe, .msi, .dmg, etc.) and/or
      click-to-launch wrappers for existing OpenCue components. To goal
      is to make OpenCue more user friendly by reducing reliance on the command
      line and providing an intuitive click-to-install/-launch experience.
    - Special skills: Desktop application development


### OpenEXR

Home page:  https://www.openexr.com/ <br>
GitHub:     https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openexr <br>
Skills/knowledge relevant to the project:

Mentor suggestions: Kimball Thurston, Cary Phillips, Larry Gritz, Nick Porcino

**Project Ideas**:

* New python bindings for Imath using pybind11.
    - Our core C++ library for vector and matrix types, which is widely
      used by other projects, needs an overhaul of its Python bindings
      to switch to using [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11)

* Split Imath into a separate project and modernize
    - The main library is for dealing with OpenEXR image files. But several
      helper libraries are bundled, including a widely used vector, matrix,
      and math library known as Imath. We would like to split this off into
      a separate repository (which will then be a dependency of the image
      file library). There are several possible sub-tasks:
        - actually splitting the library into separate repo and adjusting
          all the CMake build scripts
        - make almost all of it exception-free and marked properly as `noexcept`
        - mark `const` and `constexpr` as widely as possible.

* Explore and benchmark compression methods
   - Design a methodology for assessing compression and decompression speed
     and file sizes.
   - Benchmark the currently supported set of compression techniques across
     a variety of represenative images and document the performance and
     compression ratio tradeoffs among the choices.
   - Speculatively implement additional compression techniques such as
     [zfp](https://computing.llnl.gov/projects/floating-point-compression)
     or [zstd](https://github.com/facebook/zstd) (and possibly others) to
     find out if they offer advantages over our current set of compression
     methods.

* Performance evaluation and regression detection
   - We currently have a test suite to verify correctness, but not performance.
   - Design and implement performance tests as part of our testing framework.
     This should probably cover a variety of image file scenarios and settings.
   - Extend our build and CI system to automatically detect performance
     regressions or improvements for submitted code changes and proposed
     releases.

* Expand "Simple" API
  - Update the IlmImfRGBAFile interface
  - Expose a pure "C" interface to the DSO
  - Write a sample python binding using this C api

* Amend test suite to get closer to 100% coverage
  - Current tests cover about 75% of the C++ code base, as reported by
    SonarCloud.
  - Implement tests that validate the behavior of the uncovered components.



### OpenTimelineIO

Home page:  http://opentimeline.io <br>
GitHub:     https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenTimelineIO <br>
Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: C++, Python, CMake, knowledge of how NLEs and DCCs are used, knowledge of EDLs a bonus

Mentor suggestions: Josh Minor, Stephan Steinbach, Nick Porcino, Eric Reinecke

**Project Ideas**:

* Progress Callback API
    - Some import and export operations are time consuming, and tool authors would like to provide progress estimations. A progress callback, presumably with a percentage or other measure would enable this.
    - OTIO file format adaptors are written in Python, so this would be a Python-available API

* Javascript Language binding
    - Use emscripten’s WebIDL or Embind to provide Javascript bindings for OpenTimelineio
    - An open question is whether the adaptors, such as for AAF, would be available under Javascript. The adaptors are implemented in Python.

* Otioview as a web app

* Otioview track and timeline metadata viewing
    - Add metadata introspection and navigation on timelines and tracks

* C Language binding
    - A C foreign function interface (ffi) would enable bindings for languages other than Js and Python.
    - Example applications would be Lua bindings, and remote procedure calls.
    
* Reusable timeline display widgets
    - Otioview has a widget for Qt. Having the widget separately available for other apps would be great
    - An ImGui variant
    - A generic widget assuming only the availability of mouse interaction data and simple draw calls

* C++ and Python operators for time ranges
    - Functions such as "meets", "overlaps", and so on.

* C++ and Python time coordinate system class
    - Coordinate system implementation and operators to enable operations such as local to parent, world to local, and so on.

* opentime_clock for std::chrono
    - bindings to allow meaningful interoperation with std templates that have time arguments

* Add OTIO to another ASWF project
    - Identify another ASWF project that might meaningfully interoperate with OTIO and implement it

* Add OTIO support to an NLE or DCC
    - As an example, the generic widget project could be used to build OTIO support into Blender
    - An OTIO adapter could support time based media, such as Grease Pencil storyboards in Blender


### OpenVDB

Home page:  https://www.openvdb.org/ <br>
GitHub:     https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb <br>
Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: C++14, Git, CMake,
(Knowledge of Houdini is also useful)

Mentor suggestions: Ken Museth, Dan Bailey, Nick Avramoussis

**Project Ideas**:

* Delayed Loading on Windows
  - Introduce support for delayed-loading on Windows by modifying the temporary
    file implementation in the core OpenVDB library to make use of the Windows-
    specific std::fopen flags for temporary files (“TD”).
  - Help to improve the Windows-related build, CI and documentation.
  - Background Info: OpenVDB can generate very large files and even with the
    fastest solid state drives, I/O performance is still a common bottleneck.
    Delayed-loading (sometimes referred to as lazy-loading) is about reading
    only the VDB data that is absolutely needed. An example use case is being
    able to clip or delete voxel data from the VDB before the data has been read
    from disk resulting in an overall increase in performance when visualizing
    data.

* Improved Level Set Rebuilding
  - Modify the rebuilding of VDB level sets to improve the flood-filling
    operation that can eliminate desirable features.
  - Background Info: Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG) operations include union,
    difference and intersection compositing of two or more level sets that will
    result in a new level set. An example could be subtracting some level set
    spheres from a level set of a cube to generate a “Swiss cheese” level set.
    If the narrow band or transform of the source level sets does not match the
    target level set, they must be completely rebuilt before they can be
    composited which can result in eliminating desirable features of the source
    level set. In particular, the rebuilding algorithm converts to polygons and
    back, which will cause holes in the geometry to be filled. The Polygon ->
    VDB rasterization could be special cased to use the original VDB to
    determine sign, thus avoiding collapsing holes.

* Multi-thread Sequential Algorithms
  - Introduce new multi-threaded algorithms that use leaf and tile traversal to
    replicate existing single-threaded tree algorithms (such as
    tree::activeVoxelCount).
  - Introduce new extrema and statistics tools (such as tools::extrema) that are
    multi-threaded using leaf and tile traversal.
  - Background info: Investigations carried out using the existing sequential
    tree-based algorithms in OpenVDB have demonstrated a large performance
    improvement by multi-threading across different levels of the tree data
    structure. In addition, OpenVDB provides general purpose leaf and tile
    traversal for computing extrema and statistics, however the most intuitive
    way to use these is by calling them with a tree iterator which is very slow.
    Both of these performance improvements would use Intel’s TBB and OpenVDB
    convenience classes such as tree::LeafManager and tree::NodeManager to
    introduce multi-threading.

* Improve Filter Operations to Densify Tiles and Optionally Dilate
  - Automatically densify specific VDB tiles required to perform different
    filtering operations such as gaussian smoothing and handle all edge cases.
  - Provide an option to automatically dilate level set VDBs as required when
    filtering based on filter and voxel sizes.
  - Background info: OpenVDB tiles are constant-value nodes designed to optimize
    storage space and improve performance. However not all algorithms, such as
    gaussian smoothing turn these tiles into dense nodes (often called
    densifying) when required so as to generate the correct result. In addition,
    it is left up to the user to specify the correct amount of dilation to
    perform prior to any filtering based on their filter size and the voxel
    size. A beneficial feature would be allowing the user to opt-in to dilate
    automatically up to some threshold.

* Optimization using SSE/AVX Intrinsics
  - Investigate opportunities to improve VDB performance using vectorization and
    SSE and AVX intrinsics.
  - Background info: OpenVDB already has optional SSE/AVX build flags, but
    minimal use of any of these intrinsics. There are lots of potential
    operations such as bit-counting, finding least significant bit, SSE/AVX
    operation on floating-point values (e.g. math::Vec3) and integer operations
    (e.g. math::Coord) that would benefit performance.


### Cross-project infrastructure

#### ASWF-Docker

GitHub:     https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker <br>
Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: Python, Docker, Bash, CMake

Mentor suggestions: Aloys Baillet, JF Panisset

**Project Ideas**:

* Better docker image discovery via automatic readme uploads to DockerHub overviews on image push (modern Python 3 development, dockerhub rest API).
These readme files would populate the "overview" tab on the docker hub pages such as this one: https://hub.docker.com/r/aswf/ci-openexr.
* Investigate RPM (yum packages) generation from docker ci-packages such as https://hub.docker.com/r/aswf/ci-package-openexr.
These RPMs would potentially be hosted on an artifactory yum repo which would enable any RHEL or CentOS user to very easily install many VFX packages.
* Create a prototype of a windows docker image equivalent to the linux `ci-common` and `ci-base` images to be able to compile VFX packages such as OpenEXR.
Many details on the windows version of our CI docker images are still yet to be defined and discovered.


... more ideas go here ...


