---
grand_parent: Programs
parent: Google Summer of Code
title: 2026
---

# ASWF Google Summer of Code 2026

The Academy Software Foundation (ASWF) is collaboration between the Linux
Foundation and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, serving as
an umbrella organization that is the home to many key open source
software projects used by the film industry (primarily visual effects and
animation production). The projects we manage are some of the most
high-profile and widely used open source projects originating and used in
film production studios. It's a great opportunity for students to get
involved with projects that will be used professionally on films!

The mission of the ASWF is to increase the quality and quantity of
contributions to the content creation industry's open source software base;
to provide a neutral forum to coordinate cross-project efforts; to provide a
common build and test infrastructure; and to provide individuals and
organizations a clear path to participation in advancing our open source
ecosystem.

# Our Projects

Member projects are focused primarily on visual effects and animation
production, and at present include 8 distinct software packages. Summer 
project applications can be for any of these packages individually,
as well as potentially including tasks that bridge between them or provide
common infrastructure (they share CI and other resources). The current
member projects include (in alphabetical order):

* **ACES (Academy Color Encoding System)**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/ACES)) : A global
  standard for interchanging digital image files, managing color workflows and
  creating masters for delivery and archiving.

* Continuous Integration (CI) Working Group
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/wg-ci)) : The ASWF's
  investment in CI build infrastructure provides the industry's open source
  software community with the solid foundation needed to improve best
  practices and address the unique challenges we face.

* **Dailies Notes Assistant (DNA)**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/DNA)): Aims to
  explore how LLM-assisted transcription and summarization can meaningfully
  enhance the VFX dailies/review session note-taking process, prioritizing
  practical utility and thoughtful support for production professionals. It
  seeks to be an open-source, integratable tool that improves accuracy and
  efficiency in capturing review feedback without removing essential
  coordinator responsibilities.

* **Digital Production Example Library (DPEL)**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/DPEL)): A library of
  digital assets - 3D scenes, digital cinema footage, etc. - that demonstrate
  the scale and complexity of modern feature film production, including
  computer graphics, visual effects and animation.

* **MaterialX**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/MaterialX)): An open
  standard for representing rich material and look-development content in
  computer graphics, enabling its platform-independent description and
  exchange across applications and renderers.

* **OpenAPV**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenAPV)): OpenAPV
  provides the reference implementation of the APV codec which can be used to
  record professional-grade video and associated metadata without quality
  degradation. The primary purpose of the APV codec is for use in professional
  video recording and editing workflows for various types of content, and only
  uses algorithms that do not require patent or other licensing.

* **OpenAssetIO** ([GitHub](https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO)): An
  open-source interoperability standard for tools and content management
  systems used in media production. It aims to reduce the integration effort
  and maintenance overhead of modern CGI pipelines, and pioneer new,
  standardized asset-centric workflows in content creation tooling.

* **OpenColorIO**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenColorIO)): A
  complete color management solution geared towards motion picture production
  with an emphasis on visual effects and computer animation. OCIO provides a
  straightforward and consistent user experience across all supporting
  applications while allowing for sophisticated back-end configuration options
  suitable for high-end production usage. 

* **OpenCue**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenCue)): OpenCue is
  an open source render management system, used in visual effects and
  animation production to break down complex jobs into individual tasks. You
  can submit jobs to a configurable dispatch queue that allocates the
  necessary computational resources.

* **OpenEXR**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenEXR)): The
  OpenEXR project provides the specification and reference implementation of
  the EXR file format, the professional-grade image storage format of the
  motion picture industry. Additionally, this project maintains **Imath**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/Imath)), a C++ and
  python library of 2D and 3D vector, matrix, and math operations for computer
  graphics, including the “half” 16-bit floating-point type.

* **OpenFX** ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenFX)):
  An open standard for creating visual effects (VFX) plug-ins, allowing C++
  plug-ins (shared libraries) to interface with host media creation and
  editing applications, giving artists thousands of new tools and
  capabilities.

* **OpenImageIO**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenImageIO)):
  OpenImageIO is a toolset for reading, writing, and manipulating image files
  of any image file format relevant to VFX / animation via a format-agnostic
  API with a feature set, scalability, and robustness needed for feature film
  production.

* **OpenQMC**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenQMC)): a library
  for sampling high quality Quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC) points and generating
  pseudo random numbers. Designed for graphics applications, the library is
  part of Framestore's proprietary renderer Freak and is actively used in VFX
  production.

* **Open Review Initiative (ORI)**, comprised of two sub-projects:
  - **OpenRV**
    ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenRV)): Open
    source version of Autodesk's "RV", the Sci-Tech award-winning media review
    and playback software. Open RV is an image and sequence viewer for VFX and
    animation artists. Open RV is high-performant, hardware accelerated, and
    pipeline-friendly.
  - **xSTUDIO**
    ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/xstudio)): xSTUDIO
    is a media playback and review application designed for professionals
    working in the film and TV post production industries, particularly the
    Visual Effects and Feature Animation sectors. xSTUDIO is focused on
    providing an intuitive, easy to use interface with a high performance
    playback engine at its core and C++ and Python APIs for pipeline
    integration and customisation for total flexibility.

* **Open Shading Language (OSL)**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenShadingLanguage)):
  The de facto standard shading and pattern language of physically-based
  renderers used for film VFX and animation, ideal for describing materials,
  lights, displacement, and pattern generation for modern physically-based
  path tracers. Used in Pixar's RenderMan, Autodesk Arnold, Blender's Cycles,
  and many other high-end renderers.

* **OpenTimelineIO**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenTimelineIO)): API
  and interchange format for editorial timeline information. OpenTimelineIO is
  a mature framework widely deployed across the film and television
  industries. It is natively supported in most non-linear editing
  applications, and has deep integration in game engines, digital content
  creation tools and adjacent industries as well.

* **OpenVDB**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenVDB)): OpenVDB is
  an open source C++ library comprising a novel hierarchical data structure,
  file format, and a large suite of tools for the efficient storage and
  manipulation of sparse volumetric data discretized on three-dimensional
  grids. It was developed by DreamWorks Animation for use in volumetric
  applications typically encountered in feature film production.

* **rawtoaces**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rawtoaces)): Converts
  digital camera RAW files to ACES container files containing image data
  encoded according to the Academy Color Encoding Specification (ACES) as
  specified in SMPTE 2065-1. 

* **Rez** ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/Rez)): Rez is
  a cross-platform package manager with a difference. Instead of installing to
  separate environments, all package versions are installed into a central
  repository, and standalone environments reference these existing packages.

* **Rongotai Model Train Club (RMTC)**
  ([GitHub](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/RMTC)): A
  VFX-specific framework for simplifying production and deployment of AI/ML
  models using well-tracked and rights-cleared datasets to enable clear
  provenance tracking.

In addition to typical software projects, the ASWF also forms Working Groups
to tackle industry-wide or non-traditional projects such as continuous
integration and other common tooling, zero-trust security, diversity &
inclusion, USD, and machine learning.

## Application Instructions for Students

Please familiarize yourself with the several software projects under our
organization, listed above (each with a link to their GitHub repositories).

You may choose a summer task from any of our software projects. It is also
permissible to propose (a) a task that is common infrastructure shared by
the projects, such as with our CI system; (b) a task that crosses project
boundaries or involves two projects; (c) a task that is technically in a
non-ASWF code base but for which our organization is an appropriate mentor
(as an illustrative example: adding comprehensive OpenColorIO support to a
widely used open source project).

All of our projects maintain their own CONTRIBUTING guidelines, please read
them for the project you are interested in. Most of them also have separate
contributor license agreements (CLAs) which must be signed for them to accept
contributions.

**Successfully submitting a Pull Request to the ASWF software project you are
applying to is a strict requirement prior to submitting an application.**
This is not negotiable. We will not even read applications from students who
have not submitted an acceptable PR to the project they are applying to
participate in. It can be a truly minimal change -- for example, fixing a
typo in an error message. The purpose of this requirement is to prove that
you already have the skills to set up a GitHub login, successfully clone the
project, build it, make a change, submit a PR, and interact with the
community for code review.

In addition to ideas listed below, the GitHub "Issues" page for each project
will have issues tagged "GSoC" if they seem like an appropriate size for a
GSoC summer project. You will also see many issues tagged "good first
issue", those might be ideal candidates for your small trial PR to qualify
for application.

Individual project's developer mail lists can be found here:
https://lists.aswf.io/

You can join the ASWF slack instance here: https://slack.aswf.io/ Each project
has its own channel (you may need to hunt for the "browse channels" feature),
please feel free to ask questions there, or in the `#gsoc` channel.


## Application template

Please use this application template. You don't have to stick precisely to
this, feel free to expand or tell us any other relevant details, but this is
a good place to start.

The applications will be judged both by the individual leadership teams of
the software project you propose to work on, as well as representatives of
the ASWF technical advisory council (TAC).

    Applicant name:

    Relevant courses, materials studied, jobs, programming projects, skills,
    other open source projects you've contributed to. Go ahead and tell us
    anything about your background that you think we will find interesting
    for our projects.

    ASWF project you are interested in:

    Project proposal:

    What would you like to do for your summer project?  Please explain in
    detail what it is, why it is important, how it fits into the ASWF
    project's overall design and goals.  Give specifics on acceptance
    criteria -- how we can measure your success, how we can test your code.
    Give a week-by-week timeline for expected progress and how it can be
    measured.

    Tell us about your interest in this project, what you hope to
    contribute, and what you hope to get from this experience:

    We will not review applications from students who have not contributed a
    patch to ASWF by the application deadline.  It doesn't have to be
    big -- a short bug fix, a new test case for a unit test, an improved
    error message, fixing unclear documentation.  But you must prove that
    you can check out the project, build it, find something to improve, make
    the change, communicate with the other developers, and survive our
    rigorous code review.  Please tell us below which fix you contributed:

    Project size estimate:  (90, 175, or 350 hours)



## Suggested ideas list

This lists suggested summer GSoC project ideas by each of our member projects.
It's ok to propose something different, but these are a good place to start.
It's ok to propose a project that spans multiple ASWF projects, or
infrastructure that is shared between them. 

### ACES (Academy Color Encoding System)

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/ACES
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### Continuous Integration (CI) Working Group

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/wg-ci
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: C++, CMake, build processes, GitHub Ac tions, Docker
- Mentor suggestions: J.F. Panniset

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### Dailies Notes Assistant (DNA)

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/DNA
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### Digital Production Example Library (DPEL)

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/DPEL
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### MaterialX

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/MaterialX
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: Jonathan Stone, Lee Kerley

Project Ideas:

* Add Reference OSL Render to Graph Editor ([issue](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/MaterialX/issues/2766))
  - This issue proposes the addition of a Reference OSL Render option in the
    MaterialX Graph Editor. When activated, this option would launch an
    instance of OSL testrender with the active material in the Graph Editor,
    ideally matching the camera, model, and lighting environment from the
    editor viewport.

    As noted in the recent TSC meeting, this proposed feature would provide
    developers and artists with a reference to which the output of production
    renderers such as Blender, MoonRay, Karma, Arnold, RenderMan, V-Ray, and
    OctaneRender can be compared.

    One additional inspiration for this proposal is the Stråla Graph Editor
    from IKEA, which is built upon OSL testrender and MaterialXGenOsl.

### OpenAPV

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenAPV
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### OpenAssetIO

- GitHub: https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project:
- Mentor suggestions:

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### OpenColorIO

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenColorIO
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: Carol Payne

Project Ideas:

* Implement OCIO within webassembly & develop a small proof of concept app
  in-browser.
    - First ensure working compilation of OCIO into WASM
    - Develop a small prototype webapp such as: image viewer with input colorspace and output view/display control
* User / Studio experience flow -- Develop a documentation and code example
  framework using OCIO tools (ocioview, command line utilities, etc) to
  showcase modern best practices for OCIO config authoring and application
  implementation, including but not limited to:
    - Custom view/display creation
    - Custom IDT / Color space creation
    - Shot-based look workflows
    - Integration with ACES Metadata File (AMF) and Common LUT File (CLF) workflows

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### OpenCue

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenCue
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: Diego Tavares, Ramon Figueiredo

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### OpenEXR

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openexr
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: Kimball Thurston, Cary Phillips

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### OpenFX

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenFX
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### OpenImageIO

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenImageIO
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: C++17, Python, image formats, image processing, rendering
- Mentor suggestions: Larry Gritz

Project Ideas:

* Convert our existing Python bindings from pybind11 to nanobind. We'd like to
  fully switch over to nanobind for our Python bindings. This would require
  converting all existing pybind11 code to nanobind, which may have subtle
  differences in syntax and functionality. Beefing our our Python testing is
  probably also helpful. (This is probably a small, 90-hour, or possibly a 175
  hour project, but certainly not a 350 hour project.)

* Prototype converting the sample image viewer application, `iv`, from Qt to a
  more light-weight GUI framework, such as Dear ImGui or nanogui. The goal
  here would be to remove the incredibly heavy-weight dependency of Qt (of
  which we use only the tiniest subset of its functionality, for iv's GUI) in
  favor of something much more light-weight and an easier dependency to build
  and maintain. This would start as a working prototype, but if successful
  could lead to a full conversion of iv to the new GUI framework.

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### OpenQMC

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenQMC
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: rendering, sampling, C++

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### Open Review Initiative (ORI)

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenRV (OpenRV) and https:// github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/xstudio (xSTUDIO)
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project:
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### Open Shading Language (OSL)

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenShadingLanguage
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: C++, shading languages, compiler design, LLVM, CUDA/OptiX
- Mentor suggestions: Larry Gritz, Chris Kulla

Project Ideas:

* Feature enhancements for testrender:
    - "testrender" is a command-line based ray tracer (both CPU and GPU) that
      comes with OSL and can be used to render simple images using OSL
      shaders. It's primarily for use in our own test suite for validating OSL
      itself, but can be a useful tool for testing and debugging shaders, as
      well as for generating reference images. (But note that it is NOT trying
      to be a fully featured and high-performance renderer useful in real
      production situations.)

      A variety of features could be added to testrender to make it more
      useful, such as support for hair, nonhomogeneous volumes, or other
      features. This could be a joint project with MaterialX to add specific
      features or capabilities that MaterialX developers would find useful to
      use in their testing, CI, and other workflows.

      This is a fairly open-ended project, but the priorities would be
      in the following order, starting with important goals and moving to
      more "stretch" and nice-to-have goals as time allows:
      (a) adding renderer features useful to the OSL project itself for being
      able to more fully test OSL features in important contexts (such as the
      aforementioned hair and volumes support);
      (b) adding features useful to MaterialX developers for their own testing
      and CI workflows and to use as a MaterialX reference renderer for OSL
      output;
      (c) adding features that would make testrender adapted to an OpenUSD
      Hydra render delegate, so that OSL shaders can be tested and validated
      in that context as well.
      
* Overhaul/enhancement of osltoy: 
    - "osltoy" is a sample application that ships with OSL, a Qt-based GUI app
      that runs shaders, lets you edit the code or fiddle with the parameters,
      and see the results interactively an a displayed and continually updated
      "image." It's a bit like https://www.shadertoy.com/ but for OSL, and
      it's a local app rather than a web service. It's a fun way to tinker
      with shaders, and some studios have used it as the basis for teaching
      introductory OSL classes. This summer task would be to turn osltoy into
      a more full-featured, slicker tool that can let people do more of the
      things that people do with shadertoy -- including provisions for saving
      results from one frame that can be available to the next frame, making
      keyboard/mouse input available to the shader to respond to, etc.


### OpenTimelineIO

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenTimelineIO
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### OpenVDB

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: C++17, Git, CMake, Knowledge of Houdini is also useful
- Mentor suggestions: Ken Museth, Dan Bailey, Nick Avramoussis

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### rawtoaces

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rawtoaces
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: C++, LibRaw, OpenImageIO, raw image processing, ACES, color science
- Mentor suggestions: Anton Dukhovnikov

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### Rez

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/Rez
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

### Rongotai Model Train Club (RMTC)

- GitHub: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/RMTC
- Skills/knowledge relevant to the project: 
- Mentor suggestions: 

Project Ideas:

* Look for additional tasks in the project's issues, search for the "gsoc" tag.
* Feel free to submit your own project idea!

------------
